Greed.
Everything that this word represents goes against the very fiber of our Christian personality.
Greed is defined as a selfish and excessive desire for more of something than is needed.
The Japanese word for Greed is donyoku, and it's formed by joining two Chinese characters.
The verse character means to covet, to lust insatiably.
The second character means to have a passion, a desire, or a craving for something.
Put them together, and donyoku is not a very nice word.
To learn more about Greed, let's turn to Colossians chapter 3, verse 5.
We often quote this scripture to show the need to avoid sexual immorality, but it also
reveals that Greed is a serious sin, just how serious Colossians 3.5 says,
Didn't therefore your body members that are on the earth is respect sexual immorality,
uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire, and greediness, which is idolatry.
Now why does Jehovah equate Greed with idolatry?
Greed is desire out of control.
If we lose control of our desires, those desires become our master, the thing that we serve,
in effect, those desires become our God.
We put those desires ahead of our worship of Jehovah, and that is idolatry.
But is it idolatry to want a bigger house, or perhaps a newer car?
Not necessarily, a family with five children may have good reason to want a bigger house,
or a pioneer serving in rural territory with an old rundown car may have a legitimate
need for more dependable transportation.
So just how do we determine whether we have crossed that line between normal desire and
greed?
One way to do this is to ask ourselves two questions.
First question, what is my heart attitude that makes me want something?
And the second question, is this thing really necessary?
An illustration also will help us to determine whether we have crossed the line.
The difference between normal desire and greed has been likened to the difference
between a small campfire and a raging forest fire.
Normal desires are like a campfire that cooks our food and warms us on a cool night.
But greed is like a wind-driven forest fire that tries to consume everything in its path.
Their numerous examples in the Bible of those who let their desires get out of control.
Adam and Eve, Aiken, Baelum, Gehezai, the Israelites who collected quail, and yes, Judas
is scary it.
So greed poses a serious danger even to servants of Jehovah.
Titus chapter 1, verse 7, and 1 Timothy chapter 3, verse 8, identify greed as something
that would disqualify a brother from serving as an elder or a ministerial servant in the
congregation.
This implies that some Christians in the first century may have been contaminated by the
spirit of greed.
Today, we live in a world that is driven by greed, so it's vital that we avoid becoming
consumed by this degrading, un-Christian trait.
We can do this, first of all, by keeping our desires under control, and second by stain-focused
on spiritual matters.
Jesus made that clear in the context of today's text.
Let's open to Luke chapter 12 and examine what was it that prompted Jesus to warn against
greed in verse 15.
In Luke chapter 12, first of all, in verse 1, we notice that Jesus cautioned his listeners
against the hypocrisy of the Pharisees.
We go down to verses 4 and 5.
Notice that he told them not to fear those who can kill the body, but cannot take away
our prospects of eternal life.
Then in verses 6 and 7, he assured his disciples that they were worth more than many sparrows.
And in verse 12, he promised them that as they preached, Holy Spirit would help them
to bear witness.
These were serious subjects.
They were things that the disciples and the crowd that had gathered needed to hear.
But then what happened?
Look at verse 13, suddenly a young man blurt's out, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the
inheritance with me.
That be like us listening to a talk at a convention, and suddenly somebody stands up in
the audience and shouts, tell brother so-and-so to pay me the money that he owes me.
We probably think, where in the world did that come from?
In the case of the young man in Jesus, we do well to ask, was that young man even listening
to what Jesus was saying?
Probably not.
He was too focused on getting Jesus involved in his personal financial matter.
So what was his problem?
The law of Moses was clear on matters of inheritance.
And even if this young man had a legitimate complaint, this certainly was not the time
nor the place to bring it up.
Obviously, he had a serious lack of appreciation for spiritual matters.
Now the account doesn't reveal the degree of greed in this young man's heart, but apparently
he had crossed that line between normal desires and greed.
And Jesus detected a serious spiritual deficiency and used the example of this young man to
illustrate the dangers of greed.
After warning the audience to guard against every sort of greed in verse 15, Jesus then
related the thought-provoking illustration of the rich man whose land produced well.
Now is there a lesson in this for us?
Definitely.
We may be sitting in a Christian meeting and suddenly realize that our mind is wandered
into areas that have nothing to do with what's coming from the platform.
If that should happen, it would be good to examine what was it that distracted us,
was it something material that we were thinking about?
And we should consider whether this might be an indication that sparks from our campfire
have started jumping out and perhaps starting a bigger fire.
How can those of us in special full-time service be on guard to ensure that we do not cross
the line between normal desire and greed?
Our personal financial resources are limited.
And perhaps we'd really like to have the latest model of an electronic device.
Maybe we'd like to travel to an international convention.
When we go to our brother's home and they bring out their latest acquisitions and start
talking about their travel plans, well, if they take the initiative and offer such things
to us, we may choose graciously and gratefully to accept, however, we would never want to
drop hints of how much we would like to have this or do that.
Instead, we keep our campfire under control.
Please open to 1 Timothy chapter 6, we'll read verses 6 through 8.
And as we read the scripture, let's look for a quality that will help us to avoid the
trap of greed.
1 Timothy chapter 6 verses 6 through 8.
To be sure, there is great gain in godly devotion along with contentment.
For we have brought nothing into the world and neither can we carry anything out.
So having food and clothing, we will be content with these things.